Welcome back in this lecture,
we're going to be setting up the basic scaffolding for the command line application.
That means modifying our index file so that when the entire application starts up,
so does thes specific command line component and then building a command line library with
some standard functions that we will need to be able to read in inputs from the command
line and write them back out so that the user can see them.
Let's start with our index dot Js file at the top.
We're going to need to reference a new library that we haven't quite built yet and that is
going to be called CLI and it will live in the live directory.
So we're going to save our cli equals require dot,
slash lib slash cli.
Now we need to actually start up the application.
We want to start the CLI,
but we want to make sure it starts last.
That is because the seal I will not just start itself up,
but it will hang the console at an input simple.
And so we want all that logging that we do at the beginning such as The silver has started
up the workers have started up.
We want all that to happen first.
And then we want the CLI to start up so that it can end the console with an input symbol
without it being confusing to anyone who's looking at the console.
Because if you had an input symbol and then a bunch of output written after it,
ah,
user would be unsure whether or not there would be actually seeing a prompt that they could
respond to.
So we want to start this with a set time out.
And,
of course,
the set time out isn't the most deterministic way to start something up late.
But it'll do for now.
So we just want to offset this by 50 milliseconds.
And then just like we call it server in it workers in it.
We want to call cli dot in it.
That's all the modification.
When you do the index file.
Now we can create this lived at C l f file by doing touch lib slash Seelye dot Js.
I'm gonna open up this file.
We can fill it up at the top.
I'm gonna just add a comment that these are CLI related tasks.
We are going to have a number of dependencies here.
And these are the dependencies that we're going to need it ordered to interact with the
console,
both reading input and writing output.
I'll go into all these in more detail as we start building out to these different features
in this CLI library.
But for now,
this just require what we need.
We're going to need read line,
which is more read.
Line equals require read line.
Read line is exactly what it sounds like.
It's ah,
built in package to know that lets you read online.
Next,
we're going to use you till which we've done before.
And this is just a way to get us to be able to set up the cli specific logging on this next
line with the debug convention that we set up before.
So we're going to say that Vardy bug equals you tail dot debug log.
But the special phrase for this debugging is going to be cli.
So the logging that we're doing this fire will only be apparent to the user if they start
the app with node underscore debug Equal Seelye and then note indexed gs.
Next you want to include the events library.
As I mentioned,
we're going to be building this in a different kind of way when input comes into the
console and we read it in.
That's going to emit events that are panels can respond to.
And so we're going to use the events library pretty extensively.
So we're going to require events in order to use the events.
We actually have to extend our own class from the base class.
And then instead she ate it.
We want to say that class underscore events,
extends events Now that we have our own extent class,
we want to save our E equals new underscore events.
And that is this a convention that no Js recommends for interacting with the events class.
It's specific to the way that this module works.
And once you have this new Ian Stan,
she hated you can do all of the event handling that you want to do.
So let's just in Stan.
She ate the CLI module object,
which is a really fancy way of saying,
Let's create an object,
call it CLI and then let's export it down at the bottom.
Marjo dot exports equals Seelye,
All right,
Now we need to write this library.
Where should we start?
Well,
it index dot Js were calling cli dot in it,
so we might as well start there.
Let's define and in its crypt say that CLI in it equals function.
And what do we want to do within this initialization?
We want to send the start message to the console Didn't dark blue this time.
So let's go ahead and copy or a start message that we used for server when we said the
server is up and running.
But it said we're going to say the CLI is running and we're going to get rid of the rest of
this text.
We do want to modify the cover,
though,
so rather than using 36 which we were using before,
we're going to change this to 34 that's going to give us a dark blue color.
Now that we've said the command line APP is running,
we actually have to start that prompt that I mentioned earlier.
We have to put a input symbol in the console,
and this will indicate to the user that we're waiting for something from you.
So let's start the interface.
The way you do this is defined an interface object,
and then you used the read line package dot Create interface.
This takes a bunch of keys,
which you can define,
so we want to define input as something that should be coming from process.
Don't standard in which in this kind of application would route to the console.
Naturally,
output should route to process standard out,
which also will write the council.
And lastly,
we want to define what are prompt should look like for us.
We don't need to do anything fancy,
so we're just going to leave the prompt as a blank line as an empty string.
So when users see that there's an empty string,
that means they're being profit for something.
Now,
I should mention that the way that we're creating this interface,
using relied is only one of a few ways that you can create these kind of applications in
node.
There's also a rebel module,
R E p l that provides a bunch of the scaffolding that we're about to set up out of the box
.
The rectal is so easy to use,
though,
that I didn't feel it was worth building this section of the course around rebel.
I wanted to do a deeper dive in some of these more advanced modules.
But later on,
at the end of this course,
I'll go over how to use the rebel module if you'd rather use that.
But for now,
we are using read line to read one line at a time and right into the console manually,
rather than using a rebel module which handles all that for you.
So we have created the interface.
So now when they say life starts up,
users will see this console message and then be met with this prompt.
But starting the interface isn't actually enough to read in anything from the user.
So now we actually need to create the prompt,
not defined the prompt symbol,
as we did above,
but actually manually create the prop that the user will see.
So we want to create and initial prompt.
So we're going to call underscore interface dot prompt.
Now,
if I want to start this application up,
you can see we're getting the sea allies running sent back to us,
and the user is met with a prompt where they can write something.
But when they enter it.
Nothing happened because we haven't to find any way to handle what they're writing.
If I kill this application and then change the prompt to a greater than sign started back
up,
you'll see that were met with a prompt.
But this time it starts with the greater than side where we can write whatever we want.
It's up to you.
If you want to use a prompt,
simple or not,
I tend not to use it.
So now we have actually created the prompt.
We need to start handling the lines of text that the user will write in response to the
prompt.
So you want to handle each line of input separately.
So we're gonna call interface,
and then we're going to bind to the on line event that's going to be omitted every time the
user write something,
presses return and sends us a line of this road so online this function is going to get
called and it's going to pass us this string,
so we're going to need to now do something with this string,
so we're going to ascend to the input processor.
The input processor isn't something we've defined yet,
but we will create that function next.
This is gonna call cli dot process input and then pass the string that we just got.
Now that we have handled this input line from the user,
we actually need to re initialize the prompt.
Otherwise,
they're not going to see the prompt again.
So we need to read initialize the prompt afterwards,
so interface again Duh prompt.
Otherwise,
they would just see the prompt the first time.
But after they wrote something,
they wouldn't see it again.
Lastly,
we need to handle the situation if the user stopped the cli.
So we want to say that in that case,
you want to kill the associate ID process,
So interface woman close.
So on the event where the CLI is closed by the user,
we want to call this anonymous function and just manually kill everything with process dot
Exit.
The zero is the status code that were exiting on.
If we wanted to exit on a non zero status code,
we could put that there.
But zero status code tends to mean that everything is fine.
So we want to do that.
Now we've set up this input prompt.
We need to define the cli dot process input function that will actually handle everything
that the user might be writing so above the initial Asian script.
That's right,
this input processor.
It'll be cli dot process input.
It's going to be a function that,
as we saw,
just takes a string.
The first thing we need to do.
Of course it's sanitized.
This string a string eco's type of string string,
and it has a length even after its trimmed.
If so,
we want to use it or call it false.
Now we only want to process the input.
If the user actually wrote something,
otherwise,
we want to ignore it.
So if there's a string,
we want to continue and we don't need an else here because we don't need to handle the case
that the user wrote nothing in just pressed return or had an empty space and press return.
When that happens,
we will,
naturally,
after processing this input,
returned them to the interface prompt and so we don't need to actually handle that event.
Weaken dis ignore it so will only continue inside of this if and outside of this.
If nothing will happen now,
we want to codify the unique strings that identify the different unique questions that the
user can ask.
So codify unique.
What that means is we want to respond to a set of strings,
as we talked about in the section overview,
such as Man Help,
Exit stats,
etcetera.
We want to define what those allowable inputs are so that we can check this string against
those strings that we want to allow.
And if we don't find a match,
we want to just tell the user.
Sorry,
we don't know what you're asking us.
So we want to say that far unique inputs is an array,
and these are going to be unique strings that could not possibly be confused with each
other.
Man help exit stats list users Mawr User info.
Let's chicks more check info list logs,
mawr log info So now that we have these unique strings,
we want to try to find a match for the string that the user just sent us.
So we're going to go through the possible inputs and emit an event when a a match is found
.
So we're gonna start with match found equals false and our counter equals zero Now we're
going to cycle through this array using unique inputs dot Some we're going to cycle through
and get one in play at a time.
We want to say if the string to lower case so if the lower case version of the string index
of this specific input is greater than negative one.
In other words,
when you take the string that the user gave us and you push it down to lower case,
does this particular input that we're looking at or this input that we're looking at or
this input that we're looking at contained within this straight?
If so,
we have uniquely identified which question the user is asking.
So in that case,
we want to say match round equals true.
And then we want to emit and event matching the unique input and include the full string
given by the user.
So we want to do e dot emit.
Remember,
E is our in Stan Shih ation of this events class that we extended from the other events
module.
So we want to emit an event whose name is input,
and member input is going to be one of these things.
So that event name will be man or help or exit etcetera.
And then we also want to include this string that we received from the user.
So anyone binding to this event can bind to steps,
for example.
And then they will see this string being passed to them when they bind to that class.
And that'll make more sense in a few moments since we found a match,
we want to return true.
Break out of this loop at whatever place we're in.
Now if we reach all the way to the end of the loop and if no match is found,
tell the user to try again.
So if no match found,
we're just gonna right back to the console.
Sorry.
Try again So we can go ahead and start this application up and see how that works.
You can see the sea allies running.
If I type in something like Foo Bar which isn't recognized,
it'll say sorry.
Try again.
Where?
If I type in man which is recognized,
we won't get a response at all.
If I type it help Also recognized we won't get a response if I type in phys will say sorry
.
Try again.
So that is the basic scaffolding of a command mine application.
In the future,
Lectures will obviously need to bind to thes different events that could be omitted here so
that we can handle them and actually list the users if the user is asking that question or
give a help screen if the user is asking for help,
etcetera.
So in the following lectures,
we will do just that.
We will build out the responses to each of these questions when it at a time.
But first we'll need to go through one more lecture that builds a bit of more scaffolding
around handling these events.
So we'll build some event handling infrastructure,
and then we'll build out each response to each of these commands when a time So now we can
move on to the next lecture.